[birds chirping]
[soft music playing]
[Charles] Dear Father.
I've been thinking of you.
how much you'd love the skies here.
I remember sitting with you
when I was small.
We'd look up at the clouds
and imagine all the secrets they knew.
You'd be happy to know
your granddaughters are thriving here.
[Laura] "And Faria gave him…"
[Charles] Laura's found a love
for the prairie and for reading.
"…should recover the treasure."
[Charles] It's nothing to do with us.
but the good influence of her new friend.
Mary inherited Mother's skill
with the needle.
She's now requesting thread
as a gift instead of candy.
Caroline is happy here.
She's found a wide circle
of friends and acquaintances.
The corn is growing strong and steady.
Land office should open any day now.
and our future here
will be finally settled.
Most importantly.
you have a new granddaughter.
We call her Carrie.
She's healthy and perfect.
Every time I look at her.
I feel overwhelmed with love.
the same love I know you had for me
and for George.
I'm sorry for how we left things.
I hope you can find it
in your heart to forgive me.
If not.
please know that we are happy
on the prairie.
happy in our new home.
Pa.
Look.
[hooves clopping]
[horses whinny]
[Laura] Where are they going?
The chiefs are gathering.
Mr. Mitchell said
they're finally ready to sign the treaty.
Then what happens?
They move to Indian territory.
[Laura] All of them?
Even Good Eagle?
Come on.
We got the reverend's welcome lunch today.
And I can't wait
to eat all your ma's cobblers.
-You just finished breakfast.
-I like to plan ahead.
[Mary chuckles softly]
All right.
[melancholy music playing]
[music fades]
[kitten purring]
[in Osage] Hold still. Enough with Potato.
[footsteps approaching]
[in English] Sure you wanna spend
your birthday with Laura?
[Good Eagle] You're busy.
And she has a surprise for me.
You look nice and important.
I agree.
We'll celebrate tonight…
-Hm.
-[wagon approaching]
…when everything is settled.
-[Laura] Good Eagle! Come on!
-Remember what we told you.
Be alert. Pay attention
to everything going on around you.
I'll be there to pick you up
this afternoon.
I will. And I definitely didn't look
at all the presents you got me.
Okay. bye. Good luck.
[footsteps receding]
-She definitely looked at them.
-[door opens. closes]
And she forgot her ha-xin.
That child. She takes after you.
[wagon receding]
Are you nervous?
No. I've done plenty of translating.
The chiefs need someone like you.
someone to tell them
exactly what those people are saying.
They trust you because they know you.
I just wanna be sure
we're doing the right thing.
[sighs] It's the only thing.
I wish it weren't true. but…
Here we are.
[chickens clucking]
-[indistinct chatter]
-[distant repetitive pounding]
-[Laura giggles]
-What's that sound?
Drums. to tell the men
to gather for the council.
If the chiefs sign.
will you have to leave?
What if the chiefs don't sign?
Will we have to leave?
I don't know.
[Caroline] All right.
enough with the questions.
It's Good Eagle's birthday.
-Laura. why don't you tell her the plan?
-Tell me the plan.
We have a chore to do.
A chore?
We have to mail this letter.
Come on. let's go!
[wagon approaching]
Ingalls!
You hear that?
This is what we've all been waiting for.
Care to come with me
and witness history in the making?
To the council?
I didn't realize
it was open to the public.
Well. it's our future
just as much as theirs. [chuckles]
Come on. The deal's done.
It's all for show now.
It's a short ride. and we'll be back
before the reverend finishes grace.
I promise.
It's history in the making.
[lighthearted music playing]
Save me some cobbler.
[Eli chuckles]
That's the spirit. Ingalls.
-[chuckles]
-[driver cues horses]
Just us. then.
Doesn't look very welcoming
for a welcome luncheon.
No. it doesn't.
[Carrie cooing]
[Caroline] Margaret.
[music fades]
Can I help?
Caroline. Jemma left me in charge.
She promised she'd provide everything.
but there's nothing here.
There's no tables
or chairs or plates or cups.
Weren't we meant
to bring our own plates and cups?
I don't know. I told her
I wasn't good at these sort of things.
but she said that I needed to step up
and that surely I was clever enough.
but I am not at all.
I am not clever.
-It's all right. We'll figure things out.
-[Carrie coos]
[mellow music playing]
Ladies.
Uh. let's… let's carry out the benches
from the church for seating.
And. um. Sarah.
run down to the mill and ask them
to bring over some planks for tables.
We'll use the sawhorses for legs.
Can you go see if Miss Henderson has
anything to use for tablecloths and vases?
Yes. Ma.
-Let's get those benches.
-Yes. ma'am.
[bell dings]
[music fades]
Hello.
Hello. Mr. Henry.
I'd like to mail this letter.
Very good.
And also to ask if you've got
any letters for Good Eagle Mitchell
because today is her birthday.
As a matter of fact.
I think something
came in just this morning.
Open it.
[Good Eagle] It's a treasure map.
The Count of Monte Cristo
must have hidden treasure in Independence.
Where does it say to go?
We're here. and the first treasure's here.
That's the Judson Hotel.
Come on!
Thanks. Mr. Henry.
[upbeat music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[chatter in Osage]
[Eli clears throat]
[in English] Nice to see you.
It's good to see ya.
Didn't expect to see you here.
I thought I'd show my respect.
Hate to see good people lose so much.
Eli says it's a good deal.
fair for everyone.
Ah. that depends on
your definition of fair.
[Eli] Ingalls!
I'd like you to meet
Indian Agent Isaac Gibson.
the man we hope
will talk some sense into the seven chiefs
of the seven bands who gather here today.
Agent Gibson. Charles Ingalls
is one of our finest homesteaders.
He has a beautiful wife.
three lovely girls.
and a true passion for this land.
Help me. Mr. Ingalls. What brought you
to this land you have such a passion for?
Same thing as most men. I guess.
The open skies. a new life.
a fresh start for my family.
But why here?
Why this little piece of Kansas?
Why come to a place so unavailable?
To be honest. it was a flyer.
Saw them all over Lake Pepin.
Let me guess. "Free land in the West"?
"Millions of acres"?
"Pure and abundant water"?
[mellow music playing]
[Eli] Hm.
Something like that.
Well. he's here now.
That's the important thing.
We're all here now.
That's very true.
Gentlemen.
Ah.
[indistinct chatter]
[music fades]
Uh. yeah. with that table.
And then we'll put the food on that.
I don't know how she does that.
make everyone listen while she smiles.
-It might be witchcraft.
-My mother's not a witch.
-She's teasing.
-I'm saying it's impressive.
Maybe you'll have that power too.
the power to enchant.
Perfect!
Thank you. You're all wonderful.
-[Carrie fusses]
-Aw.
[scoffs] She won't sleep.
She doesn't wanna miss any of the action.
Well. Mary could take her
to the store where it's quiet.
Caleb could use the company.
[Mary chuckles]
Go on. We'll save you some lunch.
[heartwarming music playing]
[Carrie fusses]
I guess I knew that was happening.
[women giggle]
[music fades]
[Russell] Where's Miss Henderson?
Uh. she… she's over at the church.
-Hi.
-[metal clangs]
What is wrong with you. boy?
Don't you know how to work a scale?
How someone could leave a kid
as dull as an ox
to work the counter is beyond me.
Well?
Son. I ain't getting any younger.
[Mary] It's nice to see you. Mr. Kind.
Let me help.
-It'll be 15 cents.
-Well. that doesn't seem right.
[Mary] This is a very nice cheese.
I'm sure you're heading
to the reverend's luncheon with it.
It's very generous of you.
Would you like me to add anything else?
Just the cheese. Put it on my credit.
[door closes]
[both laugh]
-Thank you.
-It's fun. I like playing shop.
-I'll mark it in the ledger.
-Okay.
I'll be right back.
[melancholy music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
Hello. Hello.
-[Emily] Oh!
-Sorry I'm late.
The Sorenson boy
stuck his hand in a beehive.
I had to pull eight stingers
out of his sticky little paws.
Luckily. he's got quite a bit of meat
on those bones. so he'll be just fine.
I'm glad to hear it.
Mrs. Sorenson needs to tend to him.
but she sent biscuits
and honeycomb in her place.
-Oh. you can set them down over there.
-All right.
-[birds chirping]
-[indistinct chatter continues]
[chuckles]
[laughing] What?
If you think everyone doesn't know that
you've been having supper twice a week.
you'd be wrong.
Well. that's not true.
-It's three times a week.
-[gasps playfully]
[Emily laughs]
-Are you going to marry him or not?
-Lacey.
Three suppers a week?
And a walk on Saturday mornings
before the store opens?
-Hm.
-Yes. I know about that too.
We haven't talked about it.
We're stuck. I think.
Or he's stuck. I don't know.
We talk about everything under the sun.
but he just won't bring up the future.
Maybe you ask him.
-[laughs]
-Pourquoi?
Is that shocking? Did I offend you?
I just thought
you didn't believe in marriage.
No. I believe in marriage
for other people.
-I've already had mine.
-I've been as clear as I can be.
Are you sure?
Life can get away from you
if you don't speak your heart.
If I've learned anything here. it's that.
[heartwarming music playing]
I'm going to go get more water.
…and then some.
[chuckles]
[both giggling]
[Good Eagle] Ooh…
You must share in my treasure.
Monsieur Morrel.
Do you want to move away?
-Pop says we don't have to move.
-[music fades]
We could stay
on the farm like Cousin Louis.
but the rest
of my family would have to go.
And I'd miss them.
When I came here from the Big Woods.
I missed my grandma and grandpa
and aunts and uncles and cousins so much.
I felt like I was being pulled in half.
Now I can't imagine going back.
But I also can't imagine it here
without you.
It's not my decision.
[melancholy music playing]
I'm sorry.
It's your birthday.
and we should only talk about fun things.
So where's next?
[Good Eagle] The alley.
-[horses neighing]
-[music fades]
[indistinct chatter in Osage]
[tense music playing]
Who's that?
I saw him riding in.
His name is Joseph Pawnee-no-pashe.
They call him Governor Joe.
[Charles] Why Governor and not Chief?
Word is he took the title
'cause he wanted the Indian agents
to think he was reasonable.
Word also is
he is the smartest man in this lodge.
[Isaac clears throat]
This act authorizes the removal
of the Tribe of the Great and Little Osage
from Kansas…
[William translating into Osage]
…to a new and permanent home
in Indian territory.
-[William translating into Osage]
-[chiefs murmuring in Osage]
The Kansas lands will be purchased
for $1.25 an acre.
[William translating into Osage]
Those funds will then be used to secure
individual allotments for all Osage
in lands formerly held by the Cherokee.
[William translating into Osage]
[chiefs murmuring unhappily in Osage]
Owning private land
will allow you to thrive.
Manual labor.
if properly directed to agriculture.
will create a future for your families.
[in Osage] We're warriors! Not farmers!
Without the buffalo hunt. we will starve.
Sit down. cousin. Let him speak.
His words are lies.
They promised protection.
yet they allow more and more
of these people to take our land.
[Governor Joe clears throat]
Sit down.
[in English] Let's continue.
[men murmuring in Osage]
-It's absolutely transformed.
-[Caroline chuckles]
-All we need now is the guest of honor.
-Yeah.
Caroline. you saved my life.
Oh. don't be silly.
No. I mean it.
It wasn't right.
the way Jemma treated Miss Henderson.
I should have said something.
but too much time passed.
and I missed my chance.
and I said nothing.
Forgive me.
-Oh my.
-[Jemma] Hm.
You've outdone yourselves.
I wanted to make sure
you had a proper welcome.
I'm afraid the day
didn't start out quite so well.
but Caroline Ingalls came to our rescue.
This is all her doing.
I'm sure everyone pitched in.
-They did.
-[Reverend] Mmm.
Well.
it's absolutely magical.
Let's get a plate.
and you'll tell me all about yourself.
[both laughing]
[horse whinnies]
-How much candy's in here?
-Open it.
[Good Eagle chuckles]
Whenever we play at the creek.
I see you picking up pebbles.
You like the round. bright ones.
So after the snow melted. I started
looking for the prettiest pebbles
and saving them for you.
You don't like them?
I do.
There's another treasure.
a better treasure. We can go get that one.
Let's go somewhere else first.
[emotional music playing]
Is everything all right?
How long have my parents been in debt?
[music fades]
Emily and Samuel know they're good for it.
once their crop goes to market.
Please don't tell Emily I let you see.
-What was it for?
-[Caleb] Ordinary things.
Eggs. candles. thread for your embroidery…
Everyone's in debt. Mary.
You saw the book.
I know.
[melancholy music playing]
[Mary] It's just…
Pa said everything was fine.
even when I asked.
He lied to me.
Your parents took on debt to survive.
to keep you together.
They love you.
And they just wanna protect you.
I wish I had a family like that.
You have Emily.
I know.
And I have you.
[music swells]
-[door opens]
-[both gasp]
Made you a plate. Caleb.
You too. Mary.
-Thank you.
-[Emily] Mm-hm.
[Mary laughs]
[somber music playing]
[indistinct chatter in Osage]
[speaking Osage]
[in English] Not Afraid of Pawnees.
Governor of the Big Hills Band.
will you rise and hold the feather?
[indistinct chatter in Osage]
[men murmuring in Osage]
[speaking Osage]
[in English] This is the land
where our fathers died.
[speaking Osage]
This is the land where they are buried.
One day. we will face them again.
[Governor Joe speaking Osage]
[in English] They will ask us
a simple question.
What future did we leave to our children?
[Governor Joe continues in Osage]
[William] Did we keep the ways
our grandparents gave us alive
for them to carry?
[speaking Osage]
[in English] When I face my father.
this will be my answer.
[men chattering in Osage]
[music intensifies. stops]
-[Osage men cheering]
-[music resumes]
Guess the deal wasn't fair after all.
[Eli] What's happening?
Where's he going? What's happening?!
[chattering in Osage continues]
[music fades]
[in English] Jemma's told me
a great deal about this town.
mostly her contributions.
I have a feeling she left some things out.
Who the real leaders are. for instance.
-Like yourself.
-Oh. I'm not a leader.
I doubt that very much.
The women here clearly look up to you.
So. tell me about your vision
for this town.
-My vision?
-Yes.
A place where hard work is rewarded.
Place where everyone
can become who they're meant to be.
Place where children can be educated
as they were
in the cities and towns we left behind.
Education's important to you.
[Caroline] I was a teacher.
I saw how it opened up
the world for children.
I loved it.
I'll tell you what.
I only need this church on Sundays.
Rest of the week.
these four walls could be yours.
Oh. no. I couldn't.
It's not a married woman's place to teach.
This is the West. Mrs. Ingalls.
What use do we have for the old rules?
Hey. Scott. You live near that Osage camp.
They finish up yet?
Hardly. The whole thing
was chaos when I passed through.
What do you mean?
One of the chiefs walked out.
refused to sign.
[tense music playing]
I took the long way around to steer clear.
Say again?
What happens now?
I give him some space.
then I try to put things back together.
-And what does that look like?
-I'm not sure.
Mitchell. take me to that chief.
He needs to know
if he doesn't finish this today.
the army will gladly
finish this next week.
-You're talking about war?
-I'm talking about common sense.
This was all supposed to be a formality.
There's no such thing as a formality
when it comes to the future
of an entire people.
[exhales angrily]
This is your future
on the line too. Ingalls.
This is their home. They have the right
to decide whether or not they stay or go.
Not you. Not me.
Not the railroad.
[scoffs]
-What's going on over there?
-[Lacey] Nothing good.
Lots of talk of ammunition and guns.
-There's no need to be dramatic.
-I assure you she's not.
I know what fear looks like in men.
and I see it in those faces.
She's right. They're spoiling for a fight.
[indistinct chatter]
Reverend. words from you
will surely put an end to such talk.
[Reverend] Ladies and gentlemen.
thank you for the warm welcome.
I've only been here a day.
but I have seen the foundations
upon which this town is built.
-Kindness.
-[music fades]
Generosity.
Gingersnaps and blackberry cobblers.
[townspeople laugh]
But I also hear of another block
upon which we stand.
Fear. Fear is an unstable foundation.
It clouds goodwill
the way ink clouds spring water.
I know there's a great deal
of uncertainty at the moment.
and I implore you to face it
with the virtue of restraint.
[crowd murmuring]
And. uh. that goes for the cobbler too.
[laughing]
[Russell] All due respect. Reverend.
You don't know
a damn thing about Independence.
Save your sermons for Sundays.
Leave town business to us.
[tense music playing]
I don't even remember
what brought me to this place.
When the war was over.
I started runnin'…
[music fades]
…for years.
Then one day. I just woke up here.
It was so beautiful.
And I knew it wasn't mine. but I loved it.
So I stopped runnin'.
After Mitchell's daughter passed.
I'd sit up with him all night.
Wouldn't say anything.
We'd just stare up at the stars.
If I was the Osage.
I would never give this land up.
not one inch.
I'm not sure they have
a choice at this point.
No. they don't.
I mean. not a real one.
We're gonna have to live with that.
[melancholy music playing]
[Good Eagle] Persimmons were
Julia's favorite.
She'd eat so many.
she'd make herself sick.
Even when Mama warned her.
she couldn't stop herself.
Julia left us in the summer.
That fall. the trees
near our house didn't have any fruit.
Think they missed her as much as I did.
But then I saw this one.
This one had
ten trees' worth of persimmons.
And I knew it was a sign from Julia
that she'd always be with me.
[Laura] That's why you collect stones.
They're for Julia.
She was my best friend.
Do you wanna help?
[stones rattle]
[indistinct chatter in Osage]
[in English] May we talk?
Without the others?
-[horse whinnies]
-[music fades]
I know you speak English.
Father Schoenmaker said you were
one of the brightest students he ever had.
Never negotiate in the tongue
of those who lie with such ease.
Yes. it's hard to trust them.
But if you don't sign.
we both know how that ends.
And if we do sign. what can we expect?
More broken promises?
Policies that favor
the politicians and the railroad?
Policies that makes us all farmers.
toiling in the dirt.
each family alone
on their little parcel of land?
-But we will own that land.
-[Governor Joe] What do you mean. "we"?
I hear you're one of those
that plans to stay.
I'm still Osage.
And I would hope by now you understand
that I'm here to help you get everything
that you need from this deal.
You don't even know what that is.
Then tell me.
Our dignity.
If I can help you keep that.
will you sign?
Our leaders need two amendments.
First. the Osage must be permitted
to hunt the buffalo beyond the borders
of their new territory.
[Osage murmuring in agreement]
And the second?
This new land
will not be allotted individually.
It will be held by the Osage communally.
-As a tribe. as a people.
-[Osage murmuring in agreement]
[clears throat softly]
Negotiations are over.
[indistinct chatter in Osage]
[melancholy music playing]
[chatter continues]
We were once the largest.
most powerful nation on this continent.
But treaty after treaty
has shrunken our land and our numbers
but not our pride.
Mr. Gibson.
the Osage must stay together…
[murmurs of agreement]
…for our children's future.
I don't have the authority
to make those changes.
I don't believe that to be true.
[rousing music playing]
-Caroline! Where are you going?
-[music fades]
Russell Kind moved
his little grievance circle to the hotel.
[Jemma] I know that.
I just asked Dr. Tann to ride out for Eli.
He'll know how to put a stop to all this.
-I'm not gonna wait around to find out.
-[Mary] Ma?
What's happening?
I'm gonna talk some men out of
doing something stupid.
-They're not going to listen to a woman.
-I guess we'll see.
[Russell] The Osage aren't fools.
They know what refusing to sign means.
And if they ride on us.
this town's got no defense.
[Bronson] It'd be a turkey shoot.
I say we gather up all the weapons
and ammunition we can. and we ride on them
as soon as possible.
There are children in that village.
-Families.
-And what about our children and families?
What about yours?
[drums sounding]
You hear those drums starting up again?
That means war!
That's a load of dust.
You don't know what it means.
Mrs. Ingalls. come on now.
We need to show 'em
we won't be pushed around.
[Russell] Don't pay her any mind.
She's in too deep.
I'm in deep enough
to know they're good people.
trying to make a life and a future.
just like you.
[unsettling music playing]
They are nothin' like me.
I came here with those same ideas.
I thought I knew so much of the world.
but I was wrong.
And so are you.
If you drag this town to war.
every drop of blood will be on your hands.
[Russell chuckles]
-I don't want a war.
-[Russell] It's not a war.
It's self-defense.
Now. anyone who's got an ounce of courage.
you take up your weapons. you follow me.
[men murmur]
It's done.
They signed.
The government agreed to their terms.
The Osage are selling the land.
[melancholy music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[man] Thank you. That's why I'm here.
[Good Eagle] The last treasure's in here.
[Laura] It's all right.
We don't need to finish.
I want to. It's my birthday.
"Dear Good Eagle. happy birthday."
"I've never known anybody
as smart or funny or brave as you."
"I wish I could be more like you."
"And I hope we can be
best friends forever."
You already have a best friend.
I shouldn't have asked.
I could have another one.
Julia wouldn't mind.
So.
what was the surprise?
Well. Laura and I…
[music fades]
…searched for treasure.
[White Sun gasps softly]
This looks like a lot of work.
Did they sign the treaty. Mama?
They did.
What happens now?
I don't know. but change is coming.
I wish we could all stay here together.
[sad music playing]
I wish no one had to leave.
Do you know where the Osage come from?
Our Wa-zha-zhe ancestors
came to Earth
from the upper world and the stars.
When they landed.
they traveled together looking for a home.
Even when they found one.
things would happen
that led them to move to a new one.
There was always more to see.
to learn. to feel.
We carry those memories in us.
That is why we tell stories.
to remember that moving and changing
brings us closer
to understanding Wah'Kon-Tah…
The Great Mystery.
[music intensifies]
[music fades]
I wanted to believe
that everything was being handled fairly.
that everyone was getting
what they wanted.
[indistinct chatter]
Because I could only think
of my own family.
the life I wanted them to have.
I willed myself not to see the truth.
and for that. I'm sorry.
[footsteps approaching]
[speaking Osage]
What did he say?
[melancholy music playing]
He says…
"I hope you'll listen tomorrow."
"At dawn.
you will hear
our people's song of mourning."
"We will be praying
to Wah'Kon-Tah to take pity on us."
"Leaving this land means
we leave our ancestors. our history.
and a part of ourselves behind."
[William sighs]
[Mary. Laura]
♪ And then I will tell to you. darling ♪
♪ All the love I have cherished so long ♪
♪ If you will but meet me at evening ♪
♪ When you hear
The first whip-poor-will's song ♪
[music fades]
The railroad made all those flyers.
didn't they?
[Eli sighs]
[Charles] You used us
to force the Osage out.
The company has a vision of our future.
a good vision. one of wealth and progress.
You're part of that vision. Ingalls.
Be grateful. [inhales sharply]
[clears throat]
[Carrie cooing]
[bright music playing]
Ready to go home?
[Carrie cooing]
[chuckles softly]
[knocking on door]
[bell dinging]
[Emily laughs]
[Dr. Tann laughs]
-Thank you.
-Whoa. what's all this?
Well. I thought supper
should be special tonight.
-Every supper is special with you.
-[Emily chuckles]
[Emily clears throat]
[music fades]
Well.
the thing is. we've been doing this
for a while now. George.
and even though
I enjoy our evenings together. we…
We can't go on like this forever.
Oh?
[Dr. Tann takes a deep breath]
I know you had another life
before you came here.
But. um. I'd very much like to be a part
of the life you're living right now…
Or the life
you'll be living in the future…
If you'll have me.
[Emily laughs]
Well. I… I hope
you don't think me bold as brass.
but that's exactly what I am sometimes.
[sighs softly]
I haven't been
completely honest with ya.
I'm still married.
technically.
[melancholy music playing]
I'm sorry.
I should've said.
Yes. you should've.
[breathing shakily]
[music fades]
How was the treasure hunt?
I think it was worth it.
-She seemed happy.
-[Mary] That's good.
You've never done
anything that nice for me.
Maybe next birthday I will.
Something about Alice in Wonderland?
Maybe a tea party?
[both giggle]
How was your day?
Confusing.
What do you mean?
[inhales deeply]
I'll tell you about it in the morning.
[Mary sighs]
I heard you made Russell Kind
shrivel up like a plucked weed.
Not exactly.
[breathes deeply]
But maybe a little.
I'm sorry I missed it.
The whole time
we were making the trip from Wisconsin.
I kept thinking
about who we'd become out here.
what kind of people we'd be.
Now I can hardly imagine
the people we were.
I can hardly imagine not being here.
Is that a good thing?
It's everything we wanted. isn't it?
[drums sounding in the distance]
[singing in Osage]
[singing and drumming continues]
[music ends]
[closing theme music playing]